EUROPEAN SPACE AGENCY


Vacancy in the Directorate of Internal Services.


ESA is an equal opportunity employer, committed to achieving diversity within
the workforce and creating an inclusive working environment. Applications from
women are encouraged.

 

Post
Information and Communication Technology (ICT) Site Manager

 

This post is classified A2-A4 on the Coordinated Organisations’ salary scale.

 

Location
ESOC, Darmstadt, Germany  

 

Description

Under the direct authority of the Head of the End-User local Services Section,
the Site Manager is responsible for the execution of processes and tasks that
are relevant to the service delivery of the ESOC IT Local Support, serving the
needs of all users on site, for corporate and office systems.

Duties

    Monitoring the performance measurement of the IT Local Support service
(management of incidents, problems, changes, releases, configurations and
assets), ensuring compliance of the IT Local Support service with agreed SLA
provisions;
    Planning local service delivery requirements in accordance with agreed
needs of the local user community;
    Planning and monitoring local service delivery, management of all related
local work packages for corporate contracts that fall under the responsibility
of the End-User Service Division;
    Concise and timely response to local customer requirements and
establishment of appropriate agreements with customers;
    Interfacing with local stakeholders to understand their business needs and
identifying opportunities for service improvements;
    Ensuring the correct implementation of the asset management process related
to all IT-managed end-user devices procured by the Agency (hardware refresh
plan definition/execution, stock management, asset inspection, etc.);
    Providing cross-departmental support for the piloting and deployment of new
esait services;
    Provision of input to the strategic planning process, investment plans and
annual work planning processes and to the related budget preparation and
revision exercises;
    Ensuring that ESA and departmental policies, standards and guidelines are
properly implemented locally;
    Reporting progress and status of local activities to the Section Head.

Technical competencies

Business continuity management

IT service and operations management

IT business process design

Knowledge of corporate information systems

Knowledge of ESA corporate IT services

Behavioural competencies

Customer Focus

Problem Solving

Results Orientation

Communication

Planning & Organisation

Relationship Management

Education

Applicants should have a Master’s degree in Information Technology or
equivalent working experience.

Additional requirements

 

A minimum of ten years in-depth experience in the areas of customer interface
management and service delivery are required. Solid and documented practice in
the preparation, negotiation and implementation of industrial procurements is
also mandatory.

 

Excellent negotiation skills supported by effective communication and reporting
skills are essential. A sound knowledge of ESA’s procurement process and rules
would be an asset.

 

 

Other information

For behavioural competencies expected from ESA staff in general, please refer
to the ESA Competency Framework.     


The working languages of the Agency are English and French. A good knowledge of
one of these is required. Knowledge of another Member State language would be
an asset.     

The Agency may require applicants to undergo selection tests.

 

The closing date for applications is 28 April 2019.

 
If you require support with your application due to a disability, please email
contact.human.resources@esa.int.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Please note that applications are only considered from nationals of one of the
following States: Austria, Belgium, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia,
Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the
Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the
United Kingdom and Canada and Slovenia.

 

According to the ESA Convention the recruitment of staff must take into account
an adequate distribution of posts among nationals of the ESA Member States.
When short-listing for an interview, priority will first be given to internal
candidates and secondly to external candidates from under-represented Member
States. (http://esamultimedia.esa.int/docs/careers/NationalityTargets.pdf)

 

In accordance with the European Space Agency’s security procedures and as part
of the selection process, successful candidates will be required to undergo
basic screening before appointment. 

 

Recruitment will normally be at the first grade in the band (A2); however, if
the candidate selected has little or no experience, the position may be filled
at A1 level.
 
