Technical Support Engineer
Central European Time

Job ID 
    56084 

Department 
    Technical Support

Location 
    CZ-Brno 

Posting date 
    2/1/2017

Remote base 
    .. 

Job description
Company description

At Red Hat, we connect an innovative community of customers, partners, and contributors to deliver an open source stack of trusted, high-performing solutions. We offer cloud, Linux, middleware, storage, and virtualization technologies, together with award-winning global customer support, consulting, and implementation services. Red Hat is a rapidly growing company supporting more than 90% of Fortune 500 companies.

Job summary

Red Hat is looking for a Technical Support Engineer with a focus on the Linux Kernel to join our worldwide support organization. In this role, you'll become an expert on Linux system administration and troubleshooting by earning your Red Hat Certified Engineer (RHCE) certification and getting up to speed with our Kernel Support team. You'll then use your in-depth knowledge of Linux-based operating system internals to resolve problems quickly and effectively for our enterprise customers. Our customers are typically other engineers, so you will continually develop your technical skills. This opportunity is a great chance to become part of a fast-paced, leading  edge company that is changing the way software is developed, sold, and supported.

Primary job responsibilities

    Perform diagnostics of problems, troubleshoot, and develop solutions for customer issues
    Provide high level technical support to customers by taking incoming calls and responding to web-based inquiries
    Consult with and develop relationships with in-house engineers and developers to drive creative solutions and improve customer satisfaction
    Contribute to global Red Hat knowledge base to improve future customer support
    Share your knowledge through training sessions and mentoring
    Be actively involved in product design, development, troubleshooting, documentation, or upstream community work

Required skills

    Troubleshooting and debugging skills and a passion for problem solving and investigation
    Understanding of hardware and computer architecture, including x86_64 architecture; knowledge of other architectures is a major plus
    Familiarity in Linux system administration and network configuration
    Ability to read and understand C code and C build process
    Usage of distributed version control system, preferably git
    Understanding of Linux (or other UNIX system) main kernel internal structures (virtual file system, memory management, interrupt handling, etc.)
    Bachelor's degree or equivalent experience within the enterprise IT sector
    Outstanding English communication skills, both written and verbal

The following are considered a plus:

    Knowledge of x86_64 assembly (other architecture assembly languages are highly beneficial)
    Experience with using kernel debugger (kdb, kgdb, mdb, adb, etc.) or kernel tracing system (Dtrace, Systemtap, ftrace, perf,  oprofile, etc.)
    Experience writing scripts using Bash and Python, to troubleshoot and correct Linux issues
    Red Hat Certified Administrator (RHCA), RHCE, or other Linux certification
    Fluency in an additional language like Spanish, French, German, Russian, or Italian
